How to use IPv6 in Docker using Proxmox and pfSense (#147)
hetzneronline/community-content: tutorials/docker-ipv6-securely/01.en.md

---
SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
path: "/tutorials/docker-ip6-securely"
slug: "docker-ip6-securely"
date: "2019-06-16"
title: "IPv6 on docker securely"
short_description: "This tutorial will help you setup docker with IPv6 in a secure way."
tags: ["docker", "ipv6", "proxmox"]
author: "Rodrigo A. Diaz Leven"
author_link: "https://github.com/bruj0/"

> author_img: "https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/2046474?s=460&v=4"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
author_img: "https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/2046474"
```

## Objectives 
* Automatic provisioning of IPv6
   * Each Docker container will receive an IPv6 automatically.
* Routed IPv6 traffic between container in different Hosts
   * Each host will have a /80 that will be routed trough pfSense 
* Secured public access to our containers via IPv6.
   * They will be reachable publicly so we want to be able to whitelist open ports in a secure way.
* Out of band Firewall
   * Having an out of band firewall, meaning outside of the VM, will increase the security of the system
## Requirements
### IPv6 network
For this article, we will use a /64 IPv6 network because its what our Hosting provider (Hetzner) gives us.
This will be divided in 4096 /76s:
* z: x:y:w:10::1/76 WAN in Pfsense
* z: x:y:w:20::1/76 VIP (or WAN6) gateway for VM1
  * z: x:y:w:21::/80 for Docker containers in VM1
* z: x:y:w::30:1/76 VIP gateway for VM2
  * z: x:y:w:31::1/80 for Docker containers in VM2
* z: x:y:w:3e80::1/76 VMx
  * z: x:y:w:3e81::1/80 for Docker containers in VMx

## Hypervisor
We will need a way to provision VMs, for this article we selected Proxmox
More information: 
* https://www.proxmox.com/en/proxmox-ve/get-started

> * How to install it remotely on any server: https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/installing-any-os-headless-server-rodrigo-leven/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* How to install it remotely on any server: https://community.hetzner.com/tutorials/install-and-configure-proxmox_ve
```

![Proxmox](images/proxmox.png)

### Bridges
We will create 3 bridges:
* **vmbr0**: It will connect to the internet and receive both IPv4 and IPv6 traffic but will only have the main IPv4 assigned xxx.yyy.145.162/26
* **vmbr1**: The internal network shared between VMs, 10.x.x.x
* **vmbr2**: This bridge will hold the IPv6 network for our VMs, in this case a /64

> 

Reviewer: Could you also show us ``/etc/network/interfaces`` for this configuration?

Author: Added the contents to the article.
